All right.
Let's go ahead and start to implement our route handler.
So again, we're going to follow the same series of steps we saw back over here.
Inside this current user file at the very top, I'm going to import one or two things that we're probably
going to end up needing.
So up at the top, I'm going to add in an import for JWT from JSON Web token.
Remember, this is the JWT library that we're using to not only create but also validate the token and
extract information from it.
Then inside of the request handler itself, I'm going to delete the resin that's already inside there.
We're going to first begin by taking a look at the rect session JWT property.
So if not REQ session JWT.
If that thing is not set, then let's return early.
And we will do a rest.
Send and say the current user is null.
Right away, you'll notice that we get an air around record session.
We saw this error tied to TypeScript just a little bit ago.
Back inside of you was sign up or sign in one or the other.
If we hover over it, you'll see that TypeScript is being told by the cookie session libraries type
definition file.
A lot of terminology there that the record session property might be either null, undefined or in actual
cookie session object.
Now, just, you know, the only case or the only scenario where we're going to have this object really
be it null or undefined, is if we somehow get to this root handler without first executing this cookie
session middleware.
So if the request does not flow through that cookie session middleware, then the session property will
not be set.
And so that's why TypeScript is being a little bit upset here, so we can fix this up by adding in a
very simple check.
We can say, if not rect session.
So if that thing doesn't exist for some reason, or if the JWT property is not set, then we're just
going to say the user is not logged in.
The code that you see right here, we can condense down using a special little typescript operator.
So notice how we are first checking to see if rect session exists.
We can add it in right after rect session.
Instead, a little question mark.
So this right here is 100% equivalent to what we just had a moment ago.
If rect session is not defined, then this entire if statement or this entire expression right here
will evaluate.
Or I should say with the question mark, really that's going to all evaluate to be true.
So it's 100% equivalent to what we had just a moment ago.
Well, a question mark is just checking to see if some internal property actually exists or not.
Okay.
So that's going to handle this first case right here.
So now after that, we're going to try to decode the JSON Web token.
We're going to check out and see whether or not it is actually valid.
If it's not valid, we're going to once again send back current user of NULL.
Otherwise, if it is valid, we're going to send back this object that has the payload inside there.
So after the if statement, we'll say const payload is JWT verify.
Remember very quickly, we had seen back in the documentation when we're looking at the library, this
is how we decode or essentially extract information out of a JSON web token.
The first argument is going to be the token itself that will be req session JWT.
And then the second argument is going to be the JWT quay, which we had set up previously as our environment
variable.
So quick reminder, back inside of sign in.
Yes.
When we had generated that JSON web token, we use that process env JWT key right there.
That is our signing key and we need it in order to validate the token.
We're going to provide that as the second argument right here process and V underscore key.
And now once again TypeScript is not really or doesn't really want us to assume that that property is
defined as it is entirely possible that we're going to start up our app for getting to set that environment
variable.
So that's why we get that error there.
But as we saw just a little bit ago, back inside of sign in and sign up, we are very sure that we
already checked to see if that thing is defined.
So we put the question mark at the very or thing, the exclamation at the very end.
It tells TypeScript to just not worry about it.
As their further reminder, we had check to make sure that the property actually was defined back inside
of our root index file, specifically inside the start function.
So if our app starts up without that environment variable being set, we throw an error back there.
That's essentially where we just took care of that.
So once again, inside of current user, I'm going to put a little question mark right afterwards.
Now something really interesting here.
Remember, a user can technically try to fiddle around or mess around with the properties inside this
JSON web token, when we call verify if the token has been messed with in any way, then verify is going
to throw an error.
So we need to make sure that we try to capture that error.
We're going to wrap this with a try patch statement.
Again.
If something goes wrong with verifying the token, we're going to throw an error and we're going to
end up inside of a catch.
And in that scenario, as we saw back in this diagram, if the JSON web token is invalid, we're just
going to say, hey, you're not logged in.
So current user of null.
So inside the catch statement I'll do a resent current user of null.
Well, then finally, we can handle this very last case here.
So if the token is valid, if we have a token, we have successfully decoded it, we have the payload,
we're going to send that back inside the response.
So after payload right there will do a rest send.
Current user and will stick the payload in like so.
All right.
That should be it.
Let's save this.
Let's go back over to postmen, and we're going to do a quick test.
So over inside a post man.
I'm going to first make sure that I am successfully logged into the application.
So I'm just going to make sure I am making a post request to sign in.
I've got some valid credentials right here, so I'm going to send that request off.
I get back a good response, and if I go to the cookies tab, I can see very plainly that I do in fact
have a cookie set.
So presumably there is a JSON web token inside there.
Yes, that's good.
I'm now going to open up a second tab inside a postman.
I'm going to set the request type to get and I'll make that request to HTTPS ticketing.
Dot dev.
API users.
Current user.
I'll make sure that I set headers with a content.
Type of.
Application JSON.
And we're not going to have a body because we are making a get request.
Now, just, you know, whenever we get a cookie set inside of Postman Postmen is going to automatically
send that cookie to any follow up request to the same domain.
As a matter of fact, we can actually see that if we go up to the right hand side over here and click
on that cookies button.
So this is listing out all the active cookies we have inside a postman and a president.
We've got the ticketing dev cookie.
So again, our JWT is inside there.
So when we make this request, we should be including our JSON web token.
All right.
I'm going to send this off and there we go.
So I've got my current user and I got the body or the payload of the JSON web token.
So I'm being told my email, my ID and the issued at time of the token.
So in the context of our React application, if we got back a response like this in our React app,
we would assume that the user was logged in.
So let's now repeat this process, but we are going to go ahead and delete our cookie.
So I'm going to go back over to this cookies tab.
I'm going to delete the cookie associated with ticketing dev.
And then I will make the request to get the current user once again.
So now we did not include a cookie and so we get a current user of null.
Awesome.
Okay.
Well, this looks pretty good.
So we now have a route to figure out whether or not the user is signed in to the application.
We are going to very quickly have to come back over here and start to refactor some of this stuff.
I know it's kind of unfortunate.
We do want to eventually have a middleware that's going to automatically try to figure out whether or
not the user is logged in for us to limit access to some routes and also to just take some information
about the user and throw it onto the request object.
But those are two middleware.
So we're going to put together a little bit later and then kind of use to spruce up this file a little
bit.
But we did have to go through this process just to understand that.
Yeah, we've got to check to see if there's the JSON Web token.
We got to decode the JWT and so on.
So quick pause right here.
We're going to take care of handling the sign out process in the next video.